##  Updating Dependencies

It is typically good practice to update dependencies monthly to ensure no CVEs are exposed through misused dependencies. The following process can be used to patch this project. It is recommended to run the regression testing after the patch to ensure nothing has broken in the update.

1. **Update Environment:** In the workbench GUI, open the project and navigate to the Environment pane. Check if there is an update available for the base image. If an updated base image is available, apply the update and rebuild the environment. Address any build errors. Ensure that all of the applications can start.
1. **Update Python Packages and NIMs:** The Python dependencies and NIM applications can be updated automatically by running the `/project/code/tools/bump.sh` script.
1. **Update Remaining applications:** For the remaining applications, manually check their default tag and compare to the latest. Update where appropriate and ensure that the applications still start up successfully.
1. **Restart and rebuild the environment.**
1. **Audit Python Environment:** It is now best to check the installed versions of ALL Python packages, not just the direct dependencies. To accomplish this, run `/project/code/tools/audit.sh`. This script will print out a report of all Python packages in a warning state and all packages in an error state. Anything in an error state must be resolved as it will have active CVEs and known vulnerabilities.
1. **Check Dependabot Alerts:** Check all of the [Dependabot](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nim-anywhere/security/dependabot) alerts and ensure they should be resolved.
1. **Regression testing:** Run through the entire demo, from document ingesting to the frontend, and ensure it is still functional and that the GUI looks correct.
